source/blog/044-rfc-indented-syntax.md, before:

---
title: "Request for Comments: Indented Syntax Improvements"
author: James Stuckey Weber
date: 2024-12-03 15:30:00 -8
---

For users of the indented syntax (`.sass`), there has been a long standing
request for the ability to have line breaks that don't end a statement. Certain
CSS syntaxes like `grid-template` and `@font-face` `src` declarations are long,
and line breaks can greatly increase the readability of the styles. 

There have been many suggestions, several attempts, and numerous workarounds to
address this pain point. We are proposing several new syntax options in the
indented syntax that add considerable flexibility and look to address this as
part of the language.

## Multiline statements

We propose allowing statements in the indented syntax to span multiple lines, as
long as line breaks occur in places where the statement can't end. 

A common way of using this syntax will be wrapping lists with line breaks in
parentheses. This allows for a grid-template declaration on multiple lines.

```sass
.grid
  display: grid
  grid-template: (
    "header" min-content
    "main" 1fr
  )
```

As usual, these parentheses will not be included in the output.

```css
.grid {
  display: grid;
  grid-template: "header" min-content "main" 1fr;
}
```

Powering this change is the underlying rule that linebreaks only end statements
where it's valid for a statement to end. Anywhere where a statement can't end, a
linebreak is ignored. This means that if the parser can't tell whether or not a
linebreak is intended to end a statement, it will end the statement.

This example demonstrates several places where line breaks will not end
statements.

```sass
@each $item in /* A statement can't end after the word "in" in an `@each` statement. */
    1, 2, 3
  .item-#{ 
    $item /* A statement can't end inside the curly braces in an interpolation. */
  }
    content: $item * /* A statement can't end after a multiplication operator. */
        10
```


As a counter example, here are some places in the same stylesheet where
linebreaks could end statements. These linebreaks will cause compilation errors
because the _next_ line is not able to be parsed.

> **Important! This code snippet demonstrates what will NOT work.**

```sass
@each $item in 1, /* A statement can end after a value, even in the middle of a list. */
     2, 3
  .item-#{ $item }
    content: $item /* A statement can end after a value, and does not look ahead for operators. */
      * 10
```

## SCSS-in-Sass

We are also proposing a new block-level opt-in to the SCSS format. One 
workaround for not having multiline statements has been to author some styles in
separate SCSS files, and this provides an inline alternative.

To opt in to the SCSS format for a block, you simply need
to wrap the block inside of curly braces. 

```sass
a
  color: blue

// Opt in to SCSS format for this rule
p {
  padding: 
    var(--top-padding, 1em)
    var(--right-padding, 2em)
    var(--bottom-padding, 1em)
    var(--left-padding, 1.5em);
  color: red;
}

// Back to indented syntax
strong
  font:
    weight: bold
```

## Semicolons are also allowed

Another proposed change would allow semicolons to optionally be added at the end
of statements in the indented syntax. Indentation rules still apply, so you
won't be able to separate multiple statements on the same line, even with a
semicolon (unless you're in a [SCSS-in-Sass](#scss-in-sass) block).

## No breaking changes

These changes are opt-in, and authors who don't want to use the new syntax do
not have to. No changes need to be made to existing stylesheets written in the
indented syntax.

## Next steps

This is still in the proposal phase, and we are open to feedback. Review the
proposal [on Github], and [open an issue] with any thoughts or concerns you
may have.

[on Github]: https://github.com/sass/sass/blob/main/proposal/indented-syntax-improvements.md
[open an issue]: https://github.com/sass/sass/issues/new

In addition to feedback from authors using the indented syntax, we are also
interested in hearing from maintainers of tooling that supports the indented
syntax.

Commit message:

Remove SCSS-in-Sass from blog post (#1279)

source/blog/044-rfc-indented-syntax.md, after:

---
title: "Request for Comments: Indented Syntax Improvements"
author: James Stuckey Weber
date: 2024-12-03 15:30:00 -8
---

For users of the indented syntax (`.sass`), there has been a long standing
request for the ability to have line breaks that don't end a statement. Certain
CSS syntaxes like `grid-template` and `@font-face` `src` declarations are long,
and line breaks can greatly increase the readability of the styles. 

There have been many suggestions, several attempts, and numerous workarounds to
address this pain point. We are proposing several new syntax options in the
indented syntax that add considerable flexibility and look to address this as
part of the language.

## Multiline statements

We propose allowing statements in the indented syntax to span multiple lines, as
long as line breaks occur in places where the statement can't end. 

A common way of using this syntax will be wrapping lists with line breaks in
parentheses. This allows for a grid-template declaration on multiple lines.

```sass
.grid
  display: grid
  grid-template: (
    "header" min-content
    "main" 1fr
  )
```

As usual, these parentheses will not be included in the output.

```css
.grid {
  display: grid;
  grid-template: "header" min-content "main" 1fr;
}
```

Powering this change is the underlying rule that linebreaks only end statements
where it's valid for a statement to end. Anywhere where a statement can't end, a
linebreak is ignored. This means that if the parser can't tell whether or not a
linebreak is intended to end a statement, it will end the statement.

This example demonstrates several places where line breaks will not end
statements.

```sass
@each $item in /* A statement can't end after the word "in" in an `@each` statement. */
    1, 2, 3
  .item-#{ 
    $item /* A statement can't end inside the curly braces in an interpolation. */
  }
    content: $item * /* A statement can't end after a multiplication operator. */
        10
```


As a counter example, here are some places in the same stylesheet where
linebreaks could end statements. These linebreaks will cause compilation errors
because the _next_ line is not able to be parsed.

> **Important! This code snippet demonstrates what will NOT work.**

```sass
@each $item in 1, /* A statement can end after a value, even in the middle of a list. */
     2, 3
  .item-#{ $item }
    content: $item /* A statement can end after a value, and does not look ahead for operators. */
      * 10
```

## Semicolons are also allowed

Another proposed change would allow semicolons to optionally be added at the end
of statements in the indented syntax. Indentation rules still apply, so you
won't be able to separate multiple statements on the same line, even with a
semicolon.

## No breaking changes

These changes are opt-in, and authors who don't want to use the new syntax do
not have to. No changes need to be made to existing stylesheets written in the
indented syntax.

## An update to the proposal

An earlier version of this post proposed a "SCSS-in-Sass" format. After feedback
from tool maintainers, this has been removed from the proposal, but we welcome
feedback on the [Github issue].

[Github issue]: https://github.com/sass/sass/issues/4003

## Next steps

This is still in the proposal phase, and we are open to feedback. Review the
proposal [on Github], and [open an issue] with any thoughts or concerns you
may have.

[on Github]: https://github.com/sass/sass/blob/main/proposal/indented-syntax-improvements.md
[open an issue]: https://github.com/sass/sass/issues/new

In addition to feedback from authors using the indented syntax, we are also
interested in hearing from maintainers of tooling that supports the indented
syntax.
